---
layout: post
title:  Taiyun has had his first publication on integrative analysis of transcription factors in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Congratulations to Taiyun!
date:   2017-02-11
excerpt: > 
  Taiyun has had his first publication. Congratulations to Taiyun!
---

Read the paper <a href="https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/2995820/Integrative-analysis-identifies-co-dependent-gene">here.</a> 

### Abstract

Motivation: DNA binding proteins such as chromatin remodellers, transcription factors (TFs), 
histone modifiers and co-factors often bind cooperatively to activate or repress their target genes in a cell 
type-specific manner. Nonetheless, the precise role of cooperative binding in defining cell-type identity 
is still largely uncharacterized.

Results: Here, we collected and analyzed 214 public datasets representing chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by 
sequencing (ChIP-Seq) of 104 DNA binding proteins in embryonic stem cell (ESC) lines. We classified their binding sites 
into those proximal to gene promoters and those in distal regions, and developed a web resource called Proximal And Distal 
(PAD) clustering to identify their co-localization at these respective regions. Using this extensive dataset, 
we discovered an extensive co-localization of BRG1 and CHD7 at distal but not proximal regions. 
The comparison of co-localization sites to those bound by either BRG1 or CHD7 alone showed an enrichment of ESC master 
TFs binding and active chromatin architecture at co-localization sites. Most notably, our analysis reveals the 
co-dependency of BRG1 and CHD7 at distal regions on regulating expression of their common target genes in ESC. 
This work sheds light on cooperative binding of TF binding proteins in regulating gene expression in ESC, and 
demonstrates the utility of integrative analysis of a manually curated compendium of genome-wide protein binding 
profiles in our online resource PAD.

Availability and Implementation: PAD is freely available at http://pad.victorchang.edu.au/ and 
its source code is available via an open source GPL 3.0 license at https://github.com/PengyiYang/PAD
